README.md, before:

# CELEGANS Movement Analysis

This repository contains code for analyzing the movement data of C. elegans worms. It uses trajectory data to
- predict time from death using linear regression
- classify whether a worm is drug-treated or not using logistic regression, SVM, CNN and KNN

## How to Use

1. Clone the repository
```
git clone path_to_repository
```
2. Install the required packages listed in `requirements.txt`
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Run the desired model scripts (KNN, SVM, Logistic Regression, Death Prediction with Linear Regression) from the main directory.


Since the feature extraction and preprocessing steps can take some time, preprocessed data and extracted features are provided in the `preprocessed_data/` and `feature_data/` directories. If you wish to re-run these steps, you need to extract the data zip file and run the `preprocessing.py` and `feature_extraction.py` scripts, both of which take very long to run. Preprocessing was only done on the original 104 worms, meaning that the script will not process the additional 18 worms.

## Data Structure & Model Choices

The given data is comprised of xy-trajectories of worms over time, including speed. The data was recorded with 1 frame every 2 seconds over 30 minute intervals every 6 hours. The death time of the worm is also annotated. In this project, each of these 30 minute intervals is referred to as a "segment". 

### Example Trajectory Visualization

In the following plot an example trajectory of a worm is shown, colored by frame number.

![Trajectory](./xy_trajectory_colored_by_frame.png)

To generate this plot, run the `dataloading.ipynb` notebook.

### Amount of Samples

The original data set comprised of 104 worms in total with their full trajectory. At a later stage, 18 more worms were added, but were only used for the KNN algorithm.

## Preprocessing

Preproscessing is done in the `preprocessing.py` script. It splits the full trajectories into segments, computes the turning angle and caps speed outliers.

## Feature Extraction

Feature extraction is done in the `feature_extraction.py` script. It computes statistical features over each segment/full trajectory, such as mean speed, max speed, standard deviation of speed, mean turning angle, etc. The extracted features are saved in `feature_data/segments_features.csv` and `feature_data/full_features.csv`.

---

## KNN

```
python KNN/knn_classification.py
```
## CNN

```
python CNN/cnn_classifier_featureless.py
```
## SVM
```
python SVM/SVM.py
```

## Logistic Regression
```
python Logistic_regression/logistic_regression.py
```

## Death Prediction with Linear Regression
```
python death_prediction_linear_regression/death_prediction.py
```

Commit message:

changed readme that data couldnt be added

README.md, after:

# CELEGANS Movement Analysis

This repository contains code for analyzing the movement data of C. elegans worms. It uses trajectory data to
- predict time from death using linear regression
- classify whether a worm is drug-treated or not using logistic regression, SVM, CNN and KNN

## How to Use

1. Clone the repository
```
git clone path_to_repository
```
2. Install the required packages listed in `requirements.txt`
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Run the desired model scripts (KNN, SVM, Logistic Regression, Death Prediction with Linear Regression) from the main directory.


Since the feature extraction and preprocessing steps can take some time, preprocessed data and extracted features are provided in the `preprocessed_data/` and `feature_data/` directories. If you wish to re-run these steps, you need to extract the data zip file and run the `preprocessing.py` and `feature_extraction.py` scripts, both of which take very long to run. The zip could not be added because of githubs size limits, so please refer to 

Sahand Jamal Rahi, PhD
Assistant Professor
Laboratory of the Physics of Biological Systems
Institute of Physics
EPFL  

Preprocessing was only done on the original 104 worms, meaning that the script will not process the additional 18 worms.

## Data Structure & Model Choices

The given data is comprised of xy-trajectories of worms over time, including speed. The data was recorded with 1 frame every 2 seconds over 30 minute intervals every 6 hours. The death time of the worm is also annotated. In this project, each of these 30 minute intervals is referred to as a "segment". 

### Example Trajectory Visualization

In the following plot an example trajectory of a worm is shown, colored by frame number.

![Trajectory](./xy_trajectory_colored_by_frame.png)

To generate this plot, run the `dataloading.ipynb` notebook.

### Amount of Samples

The original data set comprised of 104 worms in total with their full trajectory. At a later stage, 18 more worms were added, but were only used for the KNN algorithm.

## Preprocessing

Preproscessing is done in the `preprocessing.py` script. It splits the full trajectories into segments, computes the turning angle and caps speed outliers.

## Feature Extraction

Feature extraction is done in the `feature_extraction.py` script. It computes statistical features over each segment/full trajectory, such as mean speed, max speed, standard deviation of speed, mean turning angle, etc. The extracted features are saved in `feature_data/segments_features.csv` and `feature_data/full_features.csv`.

---

## KNN

```
python KNN/knn_classification.py
```
## CNN

```
python CNN/cnn_classifier_featureless.py
```
## SVM
```
python SVM/SVM.py
```

## Logistic Regression
```
python Logistic_regression/logistic_regression.py
```

## Death Prediction with Linear Regression
```
python death_prediction_linear_regression/death_prediction.py
```
